---
layout: default
categories: code
title: Kit Hunter 2.0 - Getting Started
date: 2021-09-07
description: A basic overview on the usage and function of Kit Hunter 2.0
image: /images/kit_hunter_docs.png
---
# Installation and getting started:
1. [Requirements](#requirements)
2. [Installation](#install)
3. [Usage](#usage)

## Overview
Kit Hunter is, at its most basic function, a search tool for administrators. With the release of version 2.0, this post will serve as a basic overview of the installation instructions and usage examples. Other posts will follow this one, and offer more granular levels of explanation on usage, but this brief overview will serve as a general **_getting started_** post.

## What is Kit Hunter?

As mentioned on GitHub:
>Kit Hunter is a basic scanning tool that will search directories and locate phishing kits based on established markers. As detection happens, a report is generated for administrators.

The key element in Kit Hunter is context. It's made for administrators mostly, but researchers can use it too. I've been using it for my phishing research for nearly a year now, and it has helped me enormously. For the basic usage, Kit Hunter is useful for administrators to scan their web directories and search for phishing kits. Often, phishing kits appear on websites out of the blue, and the administrator didn't know there was a problem until after the fact. Kit Hunter works to address that gap in visibility, by enabling quick and easy searches of the webserver, which can be automated or ran on demand.

## Requirements <a name="requirements"></a>
Kit Hunter will require the use of Python 3. Testing was conducted on version 3.7.3

In addition to Python 3, the following will need to be available to the script:
```
os
time
gzip
zipfile
rarfile
tarfile
sys
argparse
```
Previous versions of Kit Hunter were tested on other versions of Python for various platforms. However, the primary driver for this version has been Debian 10 and Python 3.

<a class="top" href="#top"> -[ TOC &#x2B0F; ]- </a>

## Installation <a name="install"></a>
Installing Kit Hunter is easy.

You can clone it on GitHub via the command line: `gh repo clone SteveD3/kit_hunter`

You can also [download a ZIP file directly](https://github.com/SteveD3/kit_hunter/archive/refs/heads/master.zip)

Once downloaded, you will need to place the tag folders somewhere on the system, and then edit `kit_hunter_2.py` and make sure the paths are set.

You'll find these paths at the top of the script, just below the acknowledgements. The sections you'll need to edit are below. I've included what is in my configuration as an example.

>kh_quick_scan = '/lab/steved3/PHISHING/Kit-Hunter-2/tag_files/quick_scan/'
>
>kh_full_scan = '/lab/steved3/PHISHING/Kit-Hunter-2/tag_files/'

Once configuration is complete, you're ready to run the script.

<a class="top" href="#top"> -[ TOC &#x2B0F; ]- </a>

## Usage <a name="usage"></a>

To launch a full scan using the default settings:
`python3 kit_hunter_2.py`

To launch a quick scan, using minimal detection rules:
`python3 kit_hunter_2.py -q`

To launch a custom scan:
`python3 kit_hunter_2.py -c`

>**Note:** When using the `-c` switch, you must place a tag file in the same location as Kit Hunter. You can name this file whatever you want, but the extension must be `.tag`. Please remember that the formatting is important. There should only be one item per line, and no whitespaces. You can look at the other tag files if you need examples.

Using Kit Hunter is straightforward for most scans. By default the script will generate a report that shows the files that were detected as potentially problematic, list the markers that indicated them as problematic (a.k.a. tags), and then show the exact line of code where the detection happened.

Here is an example from Kit Hunter v.2.5.8:

```
| ==============================================================================
| Archive Scanned:
|
| /lab/steved3/PHISHING/Kit-Hunter-2/Scanner/crew4mellc.top_OurTime (3).zip
|
| ==============================================================================
| The following files contain known phishing keywords:
| ==============================================================================
|
| File: 'ourtime/index.html'
| File: 'ourtime/index2.html'
| File: 'ourtime/login2.php'
|
| ==============================================================================
| The following tag file reported matches: chalbhai_Phishing_Detection.tag
| ==============================================================================
|
|           Tag: 'id="formimage1"'
|
| ==============================================================================
| The following tag file reported matches: Phishing_Kit_URL_Indicators.tag
| ==============================================================================
|
|           Tag: 'ourtime.com'
|
| ==============================================================================
| The following lines contained the previously flagged phishing tags:
| ==============================================================================
|
| Line:  '<div id="formimage1" style="position:absolute; left:184px; top:571px;
| Line:  '<div id="formimage1" style="position:absolute; left:221px; top:288px;
| Line:  'header("Location: hxxp://ourtime.com");'
| ==============================================================================
```

In the example above, we can see that this archive matched a known phishing templating system, and is targeting a social network. If you're not running Ourtime.com, then seeing this archive, or its extracted contents on your webserver is a serious problem.

If you would like to turn off the listing of matching lines, which you see at the end of the report, use the `-l` switch. Likewise, if you do not want to see a listing of folders and archives where there were no detections made (zero matches) then use the `-m` switch.

You can run `kit_hunter_2.py` from any location using the `-d` switch to select a directory to scan.

However, it is easier if you place `kit_hunter_2.py` in the directory above your web root (e.g. `/www/` or `/public_html/`) and call the script from there.

The final report will be generated in the directory being scanned. So if you use the `-d` switch to scan `/public_html/` from `$home` then the report will save to `public_html`.

>In my usage, I call Kit Hunter from my `/kit/download/` directory where new phishing kits are saved. My reports are then generated and saved to that folder. However, if I call Kit Hunter and scan my `/PHISHING/Archive/` folder using the `-d` switch, then the report will save to `/PHISHING/Archive/`.

Once scanning is complete, output from the script will point you to the location of the saved scan report.

<a class="top" href="#top"> -[ TOC &#x2B0F; ]- </a>
