---
layout: default
categories: code
title: Kit Hunter 2.0 - Scanning with Crontab
date: 2021-09-08
description: A quick post about using Crontab to automate scanning of a given folder.
image: /images/kit_hunter_docs.png
---

## Kit Hunter 2.0 with Crontab

While it wasn't mentioned in [the general usage and installation blog post](https://steved3.io/data/Kit-Hunter-2.0-Getting-Started/2021/09/07/), it is possible to use Crontab to schedule scans for Kit Hunter 2.0.

During testing, the way I got this to work was to place `kit_hunter_2.py` into the folder I wanted to scan, and to use a simple Bash script to act as a wrapper.


As an example, what I did was place `kit_hunter_2.py` into the `/steved3/Kit-Hunter-2/Scanner/`folder.

This is one level up from `/steved3/Kit-Hunter-2/Scanner/home/` which contains the user account `/bob/`.

Within the `/public_html/` folder under Bob's account, I've installed an outdated version of WordPress, which I then installed several phishing kits into, along with several phishing kit archives, and a WSO shell script. Essentially, mirroring a badly compromised website.

I intend to use Crontab to call on `kit_hunter_2.py` and scan all of the accounts under `/home/`.

Right away I noticed that calling `kit_hunter_2.py` via Crontab was problematic, as it kept trying to scan my `$home` directory.

So what I did was use a Bash script to callout to the Python code directly. I created a directory called `/kit_hunter_cron/` and placed the Bash script inside.

This folder is also where I tell Crontab to record the output, which is dumped to `kit_hunter_cron_log.txt`.

When Crontab ran, the errors went away thanks to the wrapper, and the scan worked as expected.

The final report was generated with `kit_hunter_2.py` just outside of the `/home/` directory.

The Crontab I used will run daily at 01:30 a.m. The code is below.

```
30 1 * * * /steved3/Kit-Hunter-2/kit_hunter_cron/kit_hunter_2_wrapper.sh >> /steved3/Kit-Hunter-2/kit_hunter_cron/kit_hunter_cron_log.txt 2>&1
```

The Bash script I used for the wrapper is only three lines, not including comments. The script is below.

```
#!/bin/bash

# Set the path to Kit Hunter below via 'path' and add any arguments you wish to execute.
# For example, you can use the -q or -c switch commands, as well as -m and -l.
# NOTE: You cannot use the -d switch with this wrapper.
# The Kit Hunter Report will be located with the script.

# Set the path where Kit Hunter resides.
path="/steved3/Kit-Hunter-2/Scanner/"

# Change working directory
cd $path

# Run Kit Hunter. If no switch is given, a full default scan is executed.
python kit_hunter_2.py
```
As the comments explain, it is possible to use the `-l` and/or `-m` switches, and either the `-q` or `-c` switch.

Just add them after the call to `kit_hunter_2.py` in the wrapper code like so:

```
python kit_hunter_2.py -qlm
```
